@You can <i>italicize</i>, <b>embolden</b> or <u>underline</u> portions of your messages by enclosing them with |, + or _ respectively. You can also avoid this by adding backslashes (they won't show in the message) before these characters.
♪ Hey, have you ever tried appending the % character before your messages when speaking in-game? ♫
A Scientist will pay top dollar for your frogs!
A thrown glass of water can make a slippery tile, allowing you to slow down your pursuers in a pinch.
Anything you can light a cigarette with, you can use to cauterize a bleeding wound. Technically, that includes the Supermatter.
As a Botanist, you can combine production trait chemicals just like a Chemist. Hydrogen(grass) + water(peas) + sugar(grapes) equal mannitol!
As a Botanist, you can combine production trait chemicals just like a Chemist. Potassium(bananas) + water(watermelons) equal... FUN!
As a Botanist, you can hack the MegaSeed Vendor to get access to more exotic seeds. These seeds can alternatively be ordered from cargo.
As a Botanist, you can mutate the plants growing in your hydroponics trays with Left 4 Zed from your NutriMax vendor.  Once you've ground up a few plants in the biogenerator, it can also produce Left 4 Zed.  Isn't science amazing?
As a Botanist, you should look into increasing the potency of your plants. This increases the size, amount of chemicals, points gained from grinding them in the biogenerator, and lets people know you are a proficient botanist.
As a Cargo Technician, you can earn credits by shipping salvage back through the cargo console. Liquid containers, plasma sheets, rare seeds and looted ship parts all sell.
As a Cargo Technician, you can hack MULEbots to make them faster, run over people in their way, and even let you ride them!
As a Cargo Technician, an emagged cargo console will sell you contraband packs that are not on the normal manifest.
As a Chemist, some chemicals can only be synthesized by heating up the contents with a chemical heater or manually with lighters and similar tools.
As a Chemist, there are dozens of chemicals that can heal, and even more that can cause harm. Experiment!
As a Chemist, Water and Potassium mixed together will create an explosion, with power scaling by amount used. Don't do it.
As a Chemist, you can quickly make 100u plastic bottles directly from plastic sheets, alongside being able to make 120u plastic beakers in the lathe. The ChemMaster can produce infinite 30u glass bottles as well and if researched the medical techfab can make beakers with capacity ranging from 120u to 300u.
As a Chemist, you can recharge your chemical dispenser with an inducer or by replacing its cell.
As a Chemist, you will be expected to supply crew with certain chemicals. For example, Cryoxadone and Mannitol for the cryo tubes, Diethylamine and Saltpetre for botany, as well as healing pills and patches for the front desk.
As a Cook, any food you make will be much healthier than the junk food found in vendors. Having the crew routinely eating from you will provide minor buffs.
As a Cook, being in the kitchen will make you remember the basics of Close Quarters Cooking. It is highly effective at removing Assistants from your workplace.
As a Cook, most non-custom foods will have a secondary effect, ranging from healing you to making you move at lightspeed. Experiment!
As a Cook, you can create a very wide variety of food with the crafting menu. You can find it by looking for the hammer icon near your combat mode indicator.
As a Cook, you can load your food into smartfridges and custom vending machines.
As a Cook, you can rename your custom made food with a pen.
As a Curator, you earn a 22% cut (divided by number of curators) of all credits spent on painting patronages. Turn others' patience and artistry skills into your own income!
As a Ghost, you can both start and join capture the flag games through the minigames menu, or by clicking on one of the team spawners, which can be found under the "Misc" section of the orbit menu.
As a Ghost, you can double click on just about anything to follow it. Or just warp around!
As a Ghost, you can see the inside of a container on the ground by clicking on it.
As a Janitor, if someone steals your janicart, you can instead use your space cleaner spray, grenades, water sprayer, exact bloody revenge or order another from Cargo.
As a Janitor, mousetraps can be used to create bombs or booby-trap containers.
As a Janitor, you can command cleanbots by pointing at a tile and saying mop/clean.
As a Medical Doctor, a shower can be used to help recover from sleep, unconsciousness, confusion, drowsiness, jitters, dizziness, and drunkness.
As a Medical Doctor, almost every type of wound can be treated at least temporarily with gauze. When in doubt, wrap it up!
As a Medical Doctor, corpses placed inside a freezer or morgue tray will have their organs frozen preventing decay. If you don't have time to revive multiple dead bodies, transfer them to the morgue temporarily!
As a Medical Doctor, corpses with the "...and their soul has departed" description no longer have a ghost attached to them and can't be revived.
As a Medical Doctor, Critical Slash wounds are one of the most dangerous conditions someone can have. Apply gauze, epipens, sutures, cauteries, whatever you can, as soon as possible!
As a Medical Doctor, Saline-Glucose not only acts as a temporary boost to a patient's blood level, it also speeds blood regeneration! Perfect for drained patients!
As a Medical Doctor, treating plasmamen is not impossible! Salbutamol stops them from suffocating and showers stop them from burning alive. You can even perform surgery on them by doing the procedure on a roller bed under a shower. Salbutamol and convermol do NOT heal their oxyloss damage.
As a Medical Doctor, you can deal with patients who have absurd amounts of wounds by putting them in cryo. This will slowly treat all of their wounds simultaneously, but is much slower than direct treatment.
As a Medical Doctor, you can extract implants by holding an empty implant case in your offhand while performing the extraction step.
As a Medical Doctor, you can point your penlight at people to create a medical hologram. This lets them know that you're coming to treat them.
As a Medical Doctor, you can surgically implant or extract things from people's chests. This can range from putting in a bomb to pulling out an alien larva.
As a Medical Doctor, you must target the correct limb and not be in combat mode when trying to perform surgery on someone. Right clicking your patient will intentionally fail the surgery step.
As a Medical Doctor, you can cure a heart attack by repeatedly shocking the victim with a defibrillator!
As a Monkey, you can crawl through air or scrubber vents by alt+left clicking them. You must drop everything you are wearing and holding to do this, however.
As a Monkey, you can still wear a few human items, such as backpacks, gas masks and hats, and still have two free hands.
As a Paramedic, embedded objects in a patient can be safely extracted by targeting the affected limb and using a hemostat on the patient.
As a Paramedic, it is imperative that whenever possible you put fresh corpses on the stasis beds. Your CMO will thank you.
As a Paramedic, your UV penlight can be used to stem infections in burn wounds! Just target the infected limb and use it on the patient.
As a Roboticist, keep an ear out for anomaly announcements. If you get your hands on a bluespace anomaly core, you can build a Phazon mech!
As a Roboticist, you can augment people with cyborg limbs. Augmented limbs can easily be repaired with cables and welders.
As a Roboticist, you can greatly help out Shaft Miners by building a Clarke equipped with a hydraulic clamp and plasma cutter. It shrugs off planetary storms and can even walk across lava!
As a Roboticist, you can repair your cyborgs with a welding tool. If they have taken burn damage, you can remove their battery, expose the wiring with a screwdriver and replace their wires with a cable coil.
As a Roboticist, you can reset a cyborg's model by cutting and mending the reset wire with a wire cutter.
As a Scientist, researchable stock parts can seriously improve the efficiency and speed of machines aboard your ship. In some cases, it can even unlock new functions.
As a Scientist, you can disable anomalies by scanning them with an analyzer, then send a signal on the frequency it gives you with a remote signaling device, or if researched, hit the anomaly an anomaly analyzer. This will leave behind an anomaly core, which can be used to construct a Phazon mech, reactive armors, or various unique and powerful weapons!
As a Scientist, you can generate money for Science, and complete experiments by letting the tachyon-doppler array record increasingly large explosions.
As a Scientist, you can maximize the number of uses you get out of a slime by feeding it slime steroid, created from purple slimes, while alive. You can then apply extract enhancer, created from cerulean slimes, on each extract.
As a Scientist, you can use the mutation toxin obtained from green slimes to turn yourself into a jelly mutant. Each subspecies has unique features - for example telepathic powers, duplicating bodies or integrating slime extracts!
As a Security Officer, communicate and coordinate with your fellow officers using the security channel (:s) to avoid confusion.
As a Security Officer, examining someone while wearing sechuds or HUDsunglasses will let you set their arrest level, which will cause Beepsky and other security bots to chase after them.
As a Security Officer, remember that correlation does not equal causation. Someone may have just been at the wrong place at the wrong time!
As a Security Officer, remember that you can attach a sec-lite to your disabler or your helmet!
As a Security Officer, you have a special pen in your PDA that you can use to prompt people to surrender. This will stun them without the need to use a baton!
As a Security Officer, you can treat or even cure a heart attack with repeated blows from a stunbaton. Emphasis on *repeated*.
As a Shaft Miner, always have a GPS on you, so the rest of the crew can come and find your body.
As a Shaft Miner, you can craft a variety of equipment from the local fauna. Bone axes, lava boats and ash drake armour are just a few of them!
As a Shaft Miner, you can harvest goliath plates from goliaths and upgrade your explorer's suit, greatly reducing incoming melee damage.
As an Atmospheric Technician, look into replacing your gas pumps with volumetric gas pumps, as those move air in flat numerical amounts, rather than percentages which leave trace gases.
As an Atmospheric Technician, pay attention to gas pipe meters. The meter will change color in response to temperature and the bar will increase and get thicker in response to higher pressures.
As an Atmospheric Technician, you are better suited to fighting fires than anyone else. As such, you have access to better firesuits or backpack firefighter tanks.
As an Atmospheric Technician, you can change the layer of a pipe by clicking with it on a wrenched pipe or other atmos component of the desired layer.
As an Atmospheric Technician, you can unwrench a pipe regardless of the pressures of the gases inside, but if they're too high they can burst out and injure you!
As an Atmospheric Technician, your ATMOS holofan projector blocks gases while allowing objects to pass through. With it, you can quickly contain gas spills, fires and hull breaches.
As an Atmospheric Technician, your backpack firefighter tank can launch resin. This resin will extinguish fires and replace any gases with a safe, room-temperature airmix.
As an Engineer, check on your engine and SMES cells once in a while. A ship that loses power in the wrong place does not get to leave.
As an Engineer, you can electrify grilles by placing powered cables beneath them.
As an Engineer, you can lock APCs and emitters using your ID card to prevent others from disabling them.
As an Engineer, you can repair windows by using a welding tool on them while not in combat mode.
As an Engineer, your protolathe and circuit printer can manufacture the circuit boards and components to build just about anything. Refit a compartment, build a second medbay, line a corridor with emitters. The possibilities are endless!
As an Engineer, your RCD can be reloaded with iron, glass or plasteel sheets instead of just compressed matter cartridges.
As the Bartender, the drinks you start with only give you the basics. If you want more advanced mixtures, look into working with chemistry, hydroponics, or even mining for things to grind up and throw in!
As the Bartender, you can use a circular saw on your shotgun to make it easier to store.
As the Bartender, remember to set up the bar sign by walking up to it and clicking it!
As the Captain, you have absolute access and control over your ship, but this does not mean that being a horrible person won't result in mutiny and a ban.
As the Chaplain, you are much more likely to get a response by praying to the gods than most people. To boost your chances, make altars with colorful crayon runes, lit candles, and wire art.
As the Chaplain, your bible is also a container that can store small items. Depending on your god, your starting bible may come with a surprise!
As the Chief Engineer, you can rename areas or create entirely new ones using your ship blueprints.
As the Chief Medical Officer, coordinate and communicate with your doctors, chemists and paramedics when the ship is boarded, breached or taking fire. Keeping people alive and fighting is the whole job.
As the Chief Medical Officer, your hypospray is like a refillable instant injection syringe that can hold 30 units as opposed to the standard 15.
As the Clown, eating bananas heals you slightly. Honk!
As the Clown, if you lose your banana peel, you can still slip people with your PDA! Honk!
As the Clown, spice your gimmicks up! Nobody likes a one-trick pony.
As the Clown, click with one long balloon in hand onto another to create a balloon animal! Each combination of colours has its own unique result.
As the Clown, you can use your stamp on a sheet of cardboard as the first step of making a honkbot. Fun for the whole crew!
As the Clown, your Grail is the mineral bananium, which can be given to the Roboticist to build you a fun and robust mech beloved by everyone.
As the Curator, be sure to keep the shelves stocked and the library clean for crew.
As the Curator, you are not completely defenseless. Your whip easily disarms people, your laser pointer can blind humans and cyborgs, and you can hide items in wirecut books.
As the Head of Personnel, you are not higher ranking than the other officers, but you are expected to take the Captain's place first if they go missing. If the situation seems too rough for you, consider handing the ship to another officer.
As the Head of Security, don't let the power go to your head. You may have high access, great equipment, and a miniature army at your side, but being a terrible person without a good reason is grounds for banning.
As the Head of Security, you are expected to coordinate your officers against whatever comes aboard. Sometimes that is a boarding party coming through a fresh breach, sometimes it is whatever followed the away team back up from the surface.
As the Head of Security, sentencing a prisoner to death is the Captain's call and not yours. Bring it to them.
As the Mime, you can use :r and :l to speak through your ventriloquist dummy.
As the Mime, your invisible wall power blocks people as well as projectiles. You can use it in a pinch to delay your pursuer.
As the Mime, your oath of silence is your source of power. Breaking it robs you of your powers and of your honor.
As the Quartermaster, be sure to check the manifests on crates you receive to make sure all the info is correct. If there's a mistake, stamp the manifest DENIED and send it back in a crate with the items untouched for a refund!
As the Warden, keep a close eye on the armory at all times. Boarders head straight for it, and so does anyone aboard who fancies their odds against the officers.
As the Warden, you can implant criminals you suspect might re-offend with devices that will track their location and allow you to remotely inject them with disabling chemicals.
As the Warden, you can use handcuffs on orange prisoner shoes to turn them into cuffed shoes, forcing prisoners to walk and potentially thwarting an escape.
As the Warden, your duty is to be the watchdog of the brig and handler of prisoners when little is happening, and to hand out equipment and weapons to the security officers when a crisis strikes.
Basketball requires focus. If you don't click on your target (player or hoop) you are more likely to miss.
Basketball requires stamina. The more you have, the less likely your ball will be stolen and the more likely you can steal from another player.
Basketball requires strategy. The direction both players are facing affects disarms so having your back to another player that is trying to steal is ideal.
Basketball requires skill. Spinning drains stamina, reduces accuracy, but gives resistance from disarm. Use it to dunk!
Basketball requires teamwork. Passing the ball with LMB is instant and costs no stamina.
Clicking on a windoor rather then bumping into it will keep it open, you can click it again to close it.
Different weapons have different strengths. Some weapons, such as spears, floor tiles, and throwing stars, deal more damage when thrown compared to when attacked normally.
Spears are capable of breaking into secure lockers by striking them in melee!
Don't be afraid to ask for help, whether from your peers or from admins.
Experiment with different setups of the Supermatter engine to maximize output, but don't risk the crew's safety to do so!
Felinids get temporarily distracted by laser pointers. Use this to your advantage when being pursued by one.
Firesuits and winter coats offer mild protection from the cold, allowing you to spend longer periods of time near breaches and space than if wearing nothing at all.
Glass shards can be welded to make glass, and iron rods can be welded to make iron. Ores can be welded too, but this takes a lot of fuel.
Holding alt and left clicking a tile will allow you to see its contents in the top right window pane, which is much faster than holding shift and right clicking.
If there's something you need from another department, try asking! This game isn't single-player and you'd be surprised what you can get accomplished together!
If you find yourself in a fistfight with another player, staying on the offensive is usually the smart move. Running away often won't accomplish much.
If you knock into somebody while doing a wicked grind on a skateboard, they will be floored for double the time. Radical!
If you need to drag multiple people either to safety or to space, bring a locker or crate over and stuff them all in before hauling them off.
If you're bleeding, you can apply pressure to the limb by grabbing yourself while targeting the bleeding limb. This will slow you down and take up a hand, but it'll slow down how fast you lose blood. Note this won't help the bleeding clot any faster.
If you're using hotkey mode, you can stop pulling things using H.
In a pinch, stripping yourself naked will give you a sizeable resistance to being tackled. What do you value more, your freedom or your dignity?
Laying down will help slow down bloodloss. Death will halt it entirely.
Most job-related suit slot clothing can fit job-related items into it, such as the atmospheric technician's winter coat holding an RPD, or labcoats holding most medicine.
Most things have special interactions with right, alt, shift, and control click. Experiment!
On most clothing items that go in the suit slot, you can put certain small items into your suit storage, such as a spraycan, your emergency oxygen tank, or a flashlight.
Remote devices will work when used through cameras. For example: Bluespace RPEDs and door remotes.
Sleeping can be used to recover from minor injuries and organ damage. Sanity, darkness, blindfolds, earmuffs, tables, beds, and bedsheets affect the healing rate.
Some weapons are better at taking down robots and structures than others. Don't try to break a window with a scalpel, try a toolbox.
Standard epipens contain a potent coagulant that not only slow bloodloss, but also help clot whichever of your wounds is bleeding the most! If you're suffering multiple bad bleeding wounds, make sure to seek out additional treatment ASAP!
Suit storage units not only remove blood and dirt from clothing, but also radiation!
The P2P chat function found on tablet computers allows for a stealthy way to communicate with people.
The resist button will allow you to resist out of handcuffs, being buckled to a chair or bed, out of locked lockers and more. Whenever you're stuck, try resisting!
There are many places aboard a ship to hide contraband. A few for starters: linen boxes, toilet cisterns, body bags. Experiment to find more!
Using sticky tape on items can make them stick to people and walls! Be careful, grenades might stick to your hand during the moment of truth!
We were all new once, be patient and guide new players in the right direction.
Wearing riot armor makes you significantly more effective at performing tackle takedowns, but will use extra stamina with each leap! It will also significantly protect you from other tackles!
When crafting most items, you can either manually combine parts or use the crafting menu.
When dealing with security, you can often get your sentence negated entirely through cooperation and deception.
When hacking doors, cutting and mending a "test light wire" will restore power to the door.
When in doubt about technical issues, clear your cache (byond launcher > cogwheel > preferences > game prefs), update your BYOND, and relog.
When placing floor tiles in space, you don't need to place down lattice if there is a piece of plating nearby.
Working out improves your fitness which increases your size and faster times to fireman carry. Remember that a quality diet and sleep are essential!
You can catch thrown items by toggling on your throw mode with an empty hand active.
You can change the control scheme by pressing tab. One is WASD, the other is the arrow keys. Keep in mind that hotkeys are also changed with this.
You can cheat games by baking dice in microwaves to make them loaded. Cards can be seen with x-ray vision or be marked with either a pen or crayon to gain an edge.
You can climb onto a table by dragging yourself onto one. This takes time and drops the items in your hands on the table. Clicking on a table that someone else is climbing onto will knock them down.
You can drag other players onto yourself to open the strip menu, letting you remove their equipment or force them to wear something. Note that suits or helmets will block your access to the clothing beneath them, and that certain items take longer to strip or put on than others.
You can grab someone by holding Ctrl and clicking on them, then upgrade the grab by Ctrl-clicking on them once more. An aggressive grab will momentarily stun someone, allow you to place them on a table by clicking on it, or throw them by toggling on throwing.
You can light a cigar on a supermatter crystal.
You can move an item out of the way by dragging it and then clicking on an adjacent tile with an empty hand.
You can pin your MODsuit module buttons to your action bar in the suit UI.
You can recolor certain items like jumpsuits and gloves in washing machines by also throwing in a crayon.
You can screwdriver any non-chemical grenade to shorten fuses from 5 seconds, to 3 seconds, to instant boom! Nobody ever expects this.
You can spray a fire extinguisher, throw items or fire a gun while floating through space to change your direction. Simply fire opposite to where you want to go.
You can swap floor tiles by holding a crowbar in one hand and a stack of tiles in the other.
You can use an upgraded microwave to charge your PDA!
You'll quickly lose your interest in the game if you play to win and kill. If you find yourself doing this, take a step back and talk to people - it's a much better experience!
Ships use simple nautical directions to indicate where things are, like Fore (Front of the ship), Aft (Back), Port (Left side), Starboard (Right), Quarter and Bow (Either sides of Aft and Fore, respectively). You can review these terms on the Notepad App of your PDA.
Modular computers are compatible with integrated circuits, but most of the program-dependent circuits require them to be open/backgrounded to work. To install circuits on stationary consoles, you need to toggle interaction with the frame with right-click first.
As a Bitrunner, upgrading your quantum server will increase rewards and reduce downtime.
As a Bitrunner, your avatar has a domain info ability which will give you clues to help complete virtual domains.
You can right click someone with wire cutters, jaws of life, and box cutters to instantly snap cablecuffs or zipties. The jaws can even instantly break handcuffs!
You can alt-click tank transfer valves to remove a tank from them.
You can use a multitool in your hand to track the area's local APC.
Some items, when examined, are labeled as 'crafting components', which means you can smack them with another item to directly construct a recipe. Try using an igniter on a rod!
You can further the cycle of life by having two adult plushies play with eachother, creating a smaller junior child plushie.
Most species have only 32 teeth for use in dental implants. Moths have none. Lizards have seventy five.
You can craft peg limbs and crutches with wood for use in dire circumstances. The latter are also available in medical vendors.
Biological armor will protect your limb from a zombie's infective attack, unless the limb's more damaged than the armor value. Armor with thick material, such as firesuits and EVA suits, also partially protects, preventing at least the first attack from infection.
In a pinch, you can reduce bleeding or burn infection with several commonplace reagents - flour, salt, saltwater can all be splashed onto the wound to stall for time, and tea can be drank for a boost to your body's defences.
First-aid analyzers double the speed of wound treatment on injuries, alongside giving out normal and improvised instructions for treatment.
As the Captain, your sabre deals extra damage to Assistants (as long as they have their original liver).
You can automatically extract and retract arm implants by 'activating' the empty hand they're on. This includes integrated toolsets, cursed katanas, and vorpal scythes.
You can combine the Carpet reagent with various different reagents, such as Oil and Cyanide, to create unique carpet types.
You can bake a birthday cake and then microwave it to create a legendary cake hat. You can then combine it with an energy sword to create an energy cake.
Your ship's hull integrity is its turfs. Every wall and floor you rebuild repairs the ship, and every one blown out is damage that stays until somebody fixes it.
Neutral space (green) forbids ship weapons and boarding outright. Contested space (yellow) allows boarding and interdiction but no ship weapons. Lawless space (red) allows everything.
Crossing a zone boundary cuts your engines for ten seconds. You can cancel it with the Stop button, but you cannot dart into green space to escape a fight.
Two ships can only target each other if both of them are in Contested or Lawless space.
Nebulas are cover as well as fuel, but the moment your ram scoop starts harvesting you light up and the concealment breaks.
Charging a jump takes three minutes. Start it before you need it.
The helm's waypoint readout is bookkeeping, not detection. It shows live distance and bearing to things you already know about.
Missions, outposts and planets push their own waypoints to the helm. Filter by category instead of scrolling.
Radio is scoped to your ship rather than your z-level, and the binding is sticky, so away teams and boarding parties keep the crew channel.
Wideband (:w) is carried by every headset in the galaxy. Use it to hail people, not to plan.
A stolen headset stays bound to its old ship until someone re-tunes it with a multitool. That cuts both ways.
Ship shields take a long cooldown before they will come back up. Do not drop them just to save power.
An interdictor slows an enemy ship and stops it cloaking. Link it to a weapons console with a multitool.
An assault pod cuts a hole in the target hull rather than blasting one, so the boarders arrive without setting the compartment on fire.
Pirates will negotiate. They take credits, or a specific cargo, and either is usually cheaper than the fight.
NPC ship captains carry a ship authorization key. Slot it into that ship's helm console and the hull is yours.
Your captain starts the round holding your ship's key. If the hull is ever abandoned, that key reclaims it.
Cryopod when you leave for the night. It hands your job slot back to the ship instead of stranding it.
The cryogenic oversight console lets a crew add or cut job slots, up to double the hull's default and capped at six, on a two minute cooldown.
The orientation briefing you got when you spawned can be reopened at any time from the OOC tab.
If you prefer classic intents to combat mode, the toggle is in Game Preferences.
Trade vouchers cannot be bought with credits, only earned from dangerous work. Any trader honors them, and so does any pirate who takes them off you.
Favor with a trader is earned per ship and dies with the hull. Lose the ship and you start over with everyone.
Enough favor with a trader opens their back room. What is on that shelf is capped per crew, per round.
A weapon blueprint kept on paper is shareable, sellable and stealable. Imprinted at an outpost it is theft-proof, but the paper is consumed.
Your cargo console spends whatever account the ship's bank machine is synced to. Swipe an ID on the bank machine to connect it.
The survey scanner runs off an internal power cell, so you can bolt it to bare planet dirt and walk away. Come back later for the research points.
A better matter bin in a survey scanner buys a longer run rather than a bigger payout, and a site that runs dry stays dry for the rest of the round.
Planet areas have no APCs at all. Anything that draws area power is dead down there, so bring your own.
Run the survey computer before you fly anywhere. It lists nebulas by gas, asteroids by mineral, and ruins by category.
Without its targeting node a transporter can only drop people onto open ground it picks for them, and only recover someone carrying a transponder. With it, the operator picks the exact tile.
Mission pay scales with the zone the job sends you to. The safe boards pay like safe boards.
A drop pod is one shot. Ride it down to whatever you are orbiting, or load it into an assault tube and let the weapons officer put it through somebody else's hull.
